Titanic
==============================

This is my initial analysis of the Titanic survival dataset from the Kaggle competition. The dataset contains a train.csv and test.csv from the Kaggle competition website. The analysis involves data cleaning and machine learning analysis with logistic regression, decision tree, random forest and a couple of other machine learning tools to make predictions. Predictions are saved in 'processed' data as 'submissions.csv'

Goals for this project
------------

Show an example of analysis in Python on the Titanic dataset. 
Jupyter notebooks (located in notebooks) were used for initial data exploration, model comparisions, and visualizations. Final, cleaned versions of the code to make the final dataset, perform the analysis, and make visualizations were saved as .py formats.

The data saved in /data/processed and the output figures can be generated by executing the python code in /src in the following order:
   1. run /src/features/bulid_features.py
   2. run /src/models/predict_model.py
   3. run /src/visualization/visualize.py

Project Organization
------------

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README
    ├── data
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── models             <- model summaries
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks
    │
    ├── reports            
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures 
    │
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment
    │                         generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
    │
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
    │   ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
    │   │
    │   ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
    │   │   └── build_features.py
    │   │
    │   ├── models         <- Scripts to train models and then use trained models to make
    │   │   │                 predictions
    │   │   ├── predict_model.py
    │   │   └── train_model.py
    │   │
    │   └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
    │       └── visualize.py


--------

#####

VARIABLES DESCRIPTION:

Survival        Survival
                (0 = No; 1 = Yes)
Pclass          Passenger Class
                (1 = 1st; 2 = 2nd; 3 = 3rd)
Name            Name
Sex             Sex
Age             Age
Sibsp           Number of Siblings/Spouses Aboard
Parch           Number of Parents/Children Aboard
Ticket          Ticket Number
Fare            Passenger Fare
Cabin           Cabin
Embarked        Port of Embarkation
                (C = Cherbourg; Q = Queenstown; S = Southampton)

#####

SPECIAL NOTES:

Pclass is a proxy for socio-economic status (SES)
 1st ~ Upper; 2nd ~ Middle; 3rd ~ Lower

Age is in Years; Fractional if Age less than One (1)
 If the Age is Estimated, it is in the form xx.5

With respect to the family relation variables (i.e. sibsp and parch)
some relations were ignored.  The following are the definitions used
for sibsp and parch.

Sibling:  Brother, Sister, Stepbrother, or Stepsister of Passenger Aboard Titanic
Spouse:   Husband or Wife of Passenger Aboard Titanic (Mistresses and Fiances Ignored)
Parent:   Mother or Father of Passenger Aboard Titanic
Child:    Son, Daughter, Stepson, or Stepdaughter of Passenger Aboard Titanic

Other family relatives excluded from this study include cousins,
nephews/nieces, aunts/uncles, and in-laws.  Some children travelled
only with a nanny, therefore parch=0 for them.  As well, some
travelled with very close friends or neighbors in a village, however,
the definitions do not support such relations.

Acknowledgments
------------

* Cookiecutter-data-science template was used for file orgainization (<a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>)


